---
layout: post
title: Cold War
description: Cold War
summary: Comming Soon...
tags: English, History
minute: \!10"
---

## The Begining of the Cold War:

In the aftermath of the war, the Soviet military and economy experienced a significant downturn, grappling with the destruction of their factories and cities. In contrast, the United States remained unscathed by a postwar crisis, as the war had spared American land, positioning the U.S. as the dominant nation after the European War. Following the Yalta and Potsdam Conferences, where Germany and Berlin were divvied up among the allies, the Soviets initiated the spread of communism.

> Joseph Stalin's 1946 declared that:\
> Communism and capitalism could not peacefully coexist.

The expansion of communism unfolded with the Soviets raising an imposing "iron curtain" across Europe, blocking travel and migration as a defensive strategy mitigating potential invasion. Concurrently, the Soviet communist regime extended its influence into Poland, Czechoslovakia, and Hungary, raising concerns among Americans. In response, U.S. President Truman laid out the Truman Doctrine, articulating plans to economically support countries targeted by the Soviets.

While the United States significantly contributed nearly $13 billion through the Marshall Plan to assist in the post-World War II reconstruction of European nations, the Soviets opted to isolate Western Berlin from the rest of Europe. Undeterred, the U.S. persisted in providing aid to Western Berlin and other regions under Soviet influence. This persistence ultimately led to the formation of the Warsaw Pact, a Soviet alliance with specific Eastern countries, and an agreement to divide Berlin into two parts.

As alliances strengthened, the Cold War intensified, leading both the United States and the Soviet Union to develop nuclear and thermonuclear weapons to deter each other. Concurrently, they engaged in a competitive race for space dominance, known as the "Arms and Space Races." The main objective was to showcase superior technological advancements, instilling fear in their adversaries. Eventually, both nations made substantial progress in nuclear capabilities and space exploration.

## Cold War Conflicts

### China

Following the Japanese defeat, China experienced internal strife as opposing forces vied for control. The last one to outgrow the Nationalist army in popularity was the Communist army after China's economy collapsed, leading to a civil war. Mao Zedong assumed leadership in 1949 as the Communists emerged victorious in the civil war.

Soviet-inspired policies were adopted by Mao Zedong, involving public control over private property and the establishment of collective farms. By 1958, larger government-controlled communes were introduced, part of Mao's five-year plans to boost government-owned industries. Unfortunately, this "Great Leap Forward" resulted in a devastating famine.

The ensuing crisis prompted a shift in economic policies, allowing small private plots. However, Mao opposed these changes, promoting the formation of the Red Guards to suppress any intellectual or artistic activities challenging social equality. The Cultural Revolution, marked by thousands of executions, was eventually halted by Mao around 1968.

### Vietnam

The wave of communism sweeping through East Asia reached Vietnam, where Ho Chi Minh unified the Communist and Nationalist parties, expelling the French. Supported by the U.S. and France, Vietnam divided into the communist North and capitalist South. South Vietnam's leader, Ngo Dinh Diem, acting as a dictator, sparked opposition known as the Vietcong, supported by the Soviets and Chinese.

The ensuing war saw intense fighting, with the U.S. and France launching attacks against the Communists. Despite significant destruction, the U.S. lost support and eventually withdrew. Post-war, reeducation camps were established, private properties were seized, and attempts to leave the country resulted in mass murders.

### Korea

After the Japanese defeat, Korea was divided along the 38th Parallel. North Korea, aiming for communism and under Soviet control, attacked South Korea in 1950. Despite almost conquering South Korea, UN forces, including American troops, pushed the frontlines back to the 38th Parallel.

Presently, North Korea remains a communist state, while South Korea is a thriving capitalist democracy. A demilitarized zone separates the two, prohibiting the presence of weapons or military equipment.

### Cuba

In 1959, Fidel Castro ousted a dictatorship in Cuba, only to declare himself a dictator later. Seeking economic support, Castro aligned with the Soviet Union, adopting communist ideals. The U.S., in response to Castro's policies, cut ties with Cuba. The Cuban Missile Crisis of 1962 unfolded when the U.S. discovered Soviet missiles in Cuba, leading to tense negotiations and Soviet agreement to remove the missiles.

### Nicaragua

In Nicaragua, the Sandinistas overthrew a decades-long dictatorship in 1979. The U.S., fearing a communist influence, supported Contras against the new government, which turned to Cuba and the Soviet Union for assistance, resulting in a significant loss of life.

### Middle East

After the establishment of Israel, Arab nations fought against it. Initially receiving Soviet support, Egypt later allied with the U.S., leading to peace with Israel. Simultaneously, Afghanistan, initially a communist country, faced resistance from the Mujahideen, who received U.S. aid. In 1989, Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev withdrew all troops from Afghanistan.

### Africa

Post-WWII, African colonies gained independence, with several adopting communism after civil wars. Despite neighboring countries turning communist in the 1980s, the U.S. supported the white South African government, prioritizing containment against communism over fighting discrimination. South Africa, however, faced discrimination under white rule.

## Shortfilm: Luis Dahmer and the Time Machine

[↪ See the shortfilm here.](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1BO6yGxw_oS_g-zPiZHPendXRCkWhghLS16G4IV9zvp0/edit?usp=sharing)

[↪ Read the script here.](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1iJ-Bdz__FOOT235SJ50qwTHBkzG8t2ozMfNj3Sbg0yU/edit?usp=sharing)

<!--End of file-->